to retailers, including Lowe’s, Home Depot, Walmart, Target and Amazon. This summer, it began posting requests for new products on behalf of its partners.

I was excited to hear that Quirky’s new manufacturing partners were going to be involved from the very beginning of the product development process.

“They talk to us day in and day out about gaps in the market, trends, new technologies and potential materials,” Waldhorn explained of those partners. “We begin our process by talking to them, so we know what they’re looking for.”

When Quirky’s executive team evaluates ideas that community members submit, they keep those same parameters in mind. Potential licensees are subsequently brought in again, to comment on and select from a curated list of ideas.

A 'tiger' roars to life

This summer, for example, Quirky posted a specific challenge brief for a plush toy. Less than three weeks later, longtime Quirky user Debbie Schwartz found out that her invention Tiger Tunes (since renamed Tune Zoo) had won. The invention is a conductive technology that allows kids to hold the "hands" of the stuffed "tiger" and play music by tapping on the stuffed animal's -- or a friend's -- skin, activating conductive sensors that play music.

The company's blog explained that Schwartz's invention was chosen “because it was a creative plush execution and had components which aligned with the trends and technologies our manufacturing partners were most interested in -- such as touch sensors.”

Providing inventors with a target to hit is crucial to their success. I love that Quirky’s manufacturing partners are willing to disclose this kind of information, which is really a road map, because that way, everyone wins. Once there is a target there in front of you, it's much easier to hit.

“When we know what to focus on, we shine! Invention challenges bring everyone out,”Waldhorn said, concurring. Schwartz is a retired schoolteacher from Florida who has always loved to invent, but failed to take action on any of her ideas until 2014, when she heard about Quirky and immediately created a profile. Since then, rarely a day has gone by when she doesn't log on.

That makes sense, because as Schwartz herself told me, the opportunity to collaborate on her invention ideas with friends who have become like family is a “dream come true.” Today, she said, she is constantly fine-tuning her approach to product development. When she needs help with some aspect of developing one of her ideas, she reaches out to a fellow member with the right skills. By submitting her own ideas, weighing in on others' ideas and getting to watch others both succeed and fail, she said, she’s learned what makes a product marketable.

“You need thick skin, to take constructive criticism, evolve and be flexible,” Schwartz said. “What you think is good for the market may not be true. You must listen to the community -- they give great advice.” I could not have put it better myself.

The role of manufacturers

Quirky’s manufacturing partners can also use the site to do their own market analysis, Waldhorn pointed out. “Manufacturers have an idea of what they want, but they also don’t know what they don’t know. They can see which inventions the community is driven toward and [is] rallying behind.” As crowdfunding has shown, there’s power in numbers. Added Waldhorn: Quirky can not only help manufacturers identify gaps they hadn't thought of, but its users can create the renderings and sketches needed to usher product development along quickly.

An idea that's been stuck in a partner’s research and development department for years may get just the jolt of validation it needs through the discovery of similar ideas already posted on Quirky's website.

Quirky also now intends to expand its product lines into new categories, beginning with partnerships in the toy, home improvement and pet industries. But the company’s number-one goal, Waldhorn stated, is to make the community money. 